Welcome to this month's edition of JW Broadcasting.
Here are just a few highlights that we have in store for you.
Do you feel that you've missed past opportunities to do more for Jehovah?
Or do you feel that your age or present circumstances keep you from reaching out?
We'll see how one couple learned that there may be doors of activity available
to those with a willing spirit.
Have you ever received an assignment that you felt was overwhelming?
Brother and sister Hollimey serving in West Africa
will share what helped them accept such an assignment
and remain spiritually strong through difficult times.
And if you're a regular pioneer, what role do you have in strengthening the congregation?
You'll find this dramatization very insightful.
Our focus is on our ministry in this May 2018 edition of JW Broadcasting.
To set this stage for the experiences in our program,
I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes on the theme,
Invigorate your ministry, how?
You dear brothers and sisters are having a regular share in the preaching work
and just think of the results.
Each year, about two billion hours are spent in the ministry.
Millions of Bible studies are conducted
and those being baptized number into the hundreds of thousands.
If you are a kingdom publisher, you have had a share in those thrilling statistics.
But there's a potential danger with so much to do in our life,
not just in the ministry, but also with secular work, family responsibilities,
for some even health issues, we can get into a rut.
It's not always easy to detect it first,
because in this age of technology, we always feel busy.
But what consumes our day?
Watch this one minute video and try to detect what's going on in the life of one brother.
His life is in a rut. Try to figure out why.
Would you say that this brother's life is in a rut?
Oh, he's active all day. He always has something to do.
But it says if his mind has been kidnapped by his devices.
Have you ever had the experience of reading an email
while someone is trying to tell you something?
It can be embarrassing when you realize that they've asked you a question
and they're waiting for an answer,
but you have no idea what they asked. It's embarrassing, right?
But what if the person who is trying to speak to you is Jehovah?
Even though we aren't doing anything wrong,
our daily routine can occupy our attention so much
that we are not able to hear the refreshing words of Jehovah.
That can happen to any one of us.
Even our spiritual activity can get into a rut.
One Christian sister described it this way.
I would go out in service, go to meetings, study, pray.
But I did it all on automatic control, never feeling anything.
Have you ever felt that way?
Do you see all the happy servants of Jehovah
who's experiences appear on JW Broadcasting?
And you say to yourself, why can't I find that joy?
Why is my ministry in a rut?
Perhaps you feel like a remote control train
that goes around and around on a track,
working the same territory with the same partner,
saying the same thing at each door.
Of course, there's nothing wrong with being in a good routine.
But being in a rut can sap our energy
and take the joy out of our service.
We can even come to view our ministry as boring.
Of course, we feel invigorated when we get good results.
We meet an interested person going from door to door.
We're invigorated.
And an active person approaches the cart
and wants to get in touch with the local congregation.
We're even more invigorated.
We start a Bible study.
We're on top of the world.
I'm sure you'll agree.
All those outcomes are good reasons for joy.
The problem is that we're not always in control
of getting those outcomes.
In real life, we may spend an entire morning
in the door-to-door work without meeting an interested person.
We may spend months making return visits
without starting a study.
And once again, our ministry can get into a rut.
Now, don't misunderstand.
It's not that we're doing anything wrong.
But we're not getting the full joy out of doing what's right.
Of course, Satan would love it if our service to Jehovah
were to fall into a rut.
He would love it if we lost our joy.
If we lose our joy, we lose hope.
We lose strength.
And we might even begin to feel like giving up.
The point is, brothers and sisters,
if you feel that your ministry has fallen into a rut,
don't be discouraged and don't give up,
there are ways that we can invigorate our ministry
and serve Jehovah with renewed joy.
To illustrate that, maybe you've had the frustrating experience
of locking yourself out of your house or apartment.
Of course, with a key, opening the door is simple.
A locked door might seem like an obstacle,
but it isn't if you have the key.
And the same is true with invigorating our ministry.
If we've fallen into a rut,
if we've lost that feeling of joy in our service,
there are a number of keys that can help us unlock the door.
Let's look at one.
Open your Bible to 1 Corinthians chapter 16 verses 8 and 9.
Now, in these verses,
the Apostle Paul was presented with the key of opportunity
and he used it to open a door.
1 Corinthians 16, 8 and 9 says,
but I am remaining in Ephesus until the festival of Pentecost
because a large door that leads to activity has been open to me.
Here, the Apostle Paul found a key
and it didn't require moving to another location.
In this case, the key was to stay where he was
but to take fuller advantage of an opportunity right before him.
Sometimes, the key to getting out of a rut in our ministry
is to take advantage of opportunities we have right where we are.
For example, have you considered auxiliary pioneering or regular pioneering?
What about learning a foreign language with the goal of helping a nearby group or congregation?
Opening one door often leads to other doors of opportunity.
For example, a brother named Jacob wrote this,
When I was seven, many of my classmates were Vietnamese.
I wanted to tell them about Jehovah,
so after a while, I made plans to learn their language.
For the most part, I learned by comparing the English
and Vietnamese editions of the watchtower.
I also made friends in a nearby Vietnamese language congregation.
When I was 18, I started pioneering.
Later, I attended the Bible School for Single Brothers.
This helped me with my present pioneer assignment
where I am the only elder in a Vietnamese language group.
Many Vietnamese people are amazed that I have learned their language.
They invite me in, and often I can study the Bible with them.
Some have progressed to baptism.
The point is, our ministry is what we make it.
If we allow ourselves to remain in a rut, it will be boring.
If we use our keys, if we take advantage of opportunities that present themselves,
we will invigorate our ministry and give it new meaning.
This doesn't always involve putting in more time in the ministry.
It could mean that we simply make the best use of our time
as Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 16 says.
In fact, there is a saying, don't work harder, work smarter.
The key to working smarter could be as simple as switching things up a bit.
For example, could we work with different publishers instead of the same one all the time?
Could we try a different approach to our presentation,
perhaps making better use of the Bible or our videos?
Could we engage in other aspects of the ministry,
such as cart witnessing or phone witnessing?
Could we use our time more effectively to reach people when they are most likely to be home?
Here's something else we could do to unlock a door and invigorate our ministry.
Open your Bible to Acts chapter 16 verses 9 and 10.
Now here the Apostle Paul found a unique way to unlock a door to greater joy.
Acts 16, 9 and 10 says.
And during the night, a vision appeared to Paul.
A Macedonian man was standing there urging him and saying,
step over into Macedonia and help us.
As soon as he had seen the vision, we tried to go into Macedonia
drawing the conclusion that God had summoned us to declare the good news to them.
Notice, Paul didn't think of all the reasons he couldn't step into Macedonia.
No, he took action as soon as he was presented with the opportunity.
Paul unlocked the door to invigorate his ministry.
Sometimes, we think that only those who are young can reach out to pioneer
or to serve where the need is greater.
But that's not always the case.
You parents may be able to unlock a door of opportunity for yourselves
and think of the example you set for your children when you do so.
That's what a mother named Tara discovered.
I started pioneering when my youngest daughter was in elementary school, she says.
It was important to me that my children see me serving Jehovah
to the best of my ability as I encouraged them to reach out.
Tara's husband, Anthony, saw the effect that his wife's pioneering had
and in time, he too joined the ranks.
This is what he said.
When Tara became a pioneer, it made an immediate impact on daughter's number one and number two,
and they became pioneers.
When I became a pioneer, daughters number three and number four followed.
I wish I had pursued full-time service sooner as it made a huge impact on the spirituality of the family.
I can relate to this experience because of the good example of my parents.
My mother was baptized in Canada in 1940 when she was 16.
Jehovah's Witnesses had just been banned in Canada.
Her father had already died and her mother was opposed at that time.
The brothers had very little money, but they encouraged my mother to pursue spiritual goals.
With that encouragement, she started pioneering in 1942 while the ban was still on in Canada.
In 1947, she was invited to become a special pioneer in the province of Quebec.
At that time, special pioneers were required to spend 200 hours each month in the ministry.
With basically no money and no family support, she accepted that assignment.
This picture was taken when she and her pioneer partner were boarding the train to Quebec.
Whenever I see this picture, it reminds me of the intrepid spirit that my mother had,
not being afraid to take on a challenging assignment, but putting complete trust in Jehovah.
That spirit encourages me even to this day.
My father has that same spirit.
In the summer of 1976, when I was 11 years old, a new arrangement was announced at our district convention,
auxiliary pioneering.
You could be an auxiliary pioneer if you could devote 60 hours in one month to the ministry.
The month of October 1976 had five weekends.
My father encouraged our whole congregation to try auxiliary pioneering that month.
So many brothers and sisters, including me, decided to get a taste of pioneering.
It was a wonderful experience that I will never forget.
Parents, your good example will help your children to have a living ministry of their own that they will love.
Brothers and sisters, if you find yourself in a rut, there's no reason to stay there.
We've discussed several ways to reinvigorate our ministry, and with Jehovah's help, we will be successful.
Now, let's meet a few brothers and sisters who have expanded and invigorated their ministry.
We're sure you'll appreciate their stories.
Our first experience comes from Brazil, in South America.
Cristiano and Joanna Suza found the key to invigorating their ministry in a congregation letter,
encouraging individuals to apply for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
What new blessings did they experience by reaching out?
We had our own house, a certain amount of comfort.
My husband had a stable job, and I was doing a lot where we were.
I had Bible studies, I was already a regular pioneer.
So I thought I was doing enough. It was fine to stay there.
We often see the younger ones going to Bethel, going to serve as special pioneers.
And once we reached our 40s, I thought that since we're getting older, we wouldn't be able to reach out and do more for Jehovah.
But after a letter was read to the congregations, that was really the starting point for us to see that we could do more for Jehovah.
When I heard that there was a school for couples up to 65 years old, I said,
Cristiano, it's now or never.
So immediately at the first convention that held a meeting for interested couples,
we attended the meeting and realized that out of the requirements there was one that my husband didn't meet yet,
which was two years as a regular pioneer.
So I thought, why not?
After the convention, I applied to be a regular pioneer.
So we made plans to attend the school.
But we didn't want to stay there waiting to be accepted, as there were no guarantees of being accepted in the same year in which we applied.
We sold our house, and two weeks later we had sold all the furniture.
So we made arrangements to serve where the need was greater.
We took only what was necessary in our car.
But what is necessary is always too much when you get to the territory.
You realise you didn't even need everything you took.
We were really excited because we knew the brothers were expecting us.
There was a gas station that belonged to a brother, and when we arrived the whole congregation was waiting for us there to welcome us.
Nine people.
And that had a great impact on us because we could see the expression on their faces.
It was if they were asking for help.
They helped us a lot.
I can only say that they helped us more than we helped them.
Now they would be able to have regular meetings.
The public talk every week, you know, we were in São Paulo and we had all the meetings.
But in these remote areas they need spiritual food from Jehovah so much.
But there needs to be people willing to go and help.
Then one day we had a wonderful surprise.
A brother called me and said,
Cristiano, have you checked your emails?
We'd received a letter inviting us to the school.
The school really is a gift from Jehovah.
I've encouraged others I know to attend the school because you really feel how Jehovah cares for his organisation.
And a small thing we can do is simply give our best.
And the school helps us to do just that.
Find out what is our best.
We were assigned to a congregation called Itido Su.
The brothers are very loving and we're really happy in our assignment.
I do miss my house.
It's nice to have your own house and not to have to worry about paying rent.
I miss my hairdresser.
But nothing compares to the blessings and the joy that comes from serving where there's a need.
This joy helps us to combat any home sickness we feel and stops us from developing any desire to go back home.
In the big city everything's very rushed.
I would only see my wife when I got home from work.
I'd be tired and then also have to care for coronagational matters.
So there wasn't much time for us to be together.
Now it's completely different.
We have much more time during the ministry, in the congregation, being together at home.
So for us as a family it's been very positive, very good.
We're not tired, we're not old in the sense of saying that we've got no more to give.
We really believe we can do more for Jehovah.
And we want to do more for Jehovah.
The school is proof that he wants us to do more.
We want to use our life to the full to serve Jehovah wherever he sends us.
We're willing to go.
We feel it's the only way to say a big thank you to Jehovah for everything he's done for us.
The territory, school, the brothers and Bible students.
We're better way to thank Jehovah.
Do you feel the way that brother and sister Sosa felt that you've missed the chance to do more for Jehovah?
They learned there were doors of opportunity accessible to them if they were willing to reach out.
Their choice to make themselves available resulted in rich blessings.
But did you notice when those blessings started?
Before the school they chose to serve where the need was greater.
This had a profound effect on them, deepening their appreciation for spiritual provisions.
If you desire to enliven your ministry by means of theocratic education, consider ways you can prepare your heart before you attempt.
The Sosa's example proves that even the road to expanding our ministry can be deeply satisfying.
When we're faced with challenging assignments, Reliance on Jehovah is of utmost importance.
In what ways can we show that Reliance?
I have the pleasure of introducing you to a friend of mine, Shane Brady, who is presently serving along with his wife, Yolanda, at the branch in Finland.
Brother Shane Brady and I previously worked together at the Canada branch.
Shane has been involved in legally defending our brothers for the past 22 years in many countries, including Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan.
Shane, it's good to see you. How are you doing?
Doing very well. It's great to see you too, Mark.
Shane, we want to ask you what have been some of the challenges that you've faced in accepting these assignments in various countries in the world?
Well, there certainly have been a few challenges. One is frequent travel.
Another is language. Each country that we assist has its own language.
Some court cases are very stressful. And at times we've faced firsthand the hatred of our composers.
Yes. And you know, Shane, in spite of all that, you and your wife have always been willing to go on these assignments.
We appreciate your spirit so much.
Is there an experience that you can share with us that would give us a taste of the kind of situations that you've had to deal with in these countries?
Well, there have been many experiences. One experience that comes to mind a few months ago, there was a special pioneer, a case was started against him.
And if the decision was negative, it could be, have very serious consequences for our work in that country.
So we did our best to present a strong defense.
But as the trial progressed, things didn't seem to be going so well.
Last day of the trial, everything changed. We presented a motion and we asked the judge to terminate the case against the brother.
Personally, I didn't think it would actually work. But one older brother that we worked with over the years, he always told us we need to give you hope of something to bless. And so we did.
And the results were quite unexpected. When we made the motion, the judge turned to the prosecutor asked, well, what's your opinion?
And to our surprise, the prosecutor agreed with our request. And he even went beyond what we asked.
He said to the judge that the government official that started the case against our brother should be punished.
Well, the judge agreed the case was terminated.
When we were walking out of the courtroom, I looked at the other brothers with me and we all said the same thing.
Like, what happened? Well, it was obvious. Jehovah had intervened.
That's a wonderful shame. I wish we had more time to hear many more experiences. But could you just share at least one more with us?
Sure. In another land, where our work is not recognized on the night of the memorial, a number of the brothers were arrested for so-called illegal religious activity.
They were all convicted of trial. So we arrangements were made to appeal each of those cases. And they were heard before a different appeal court judge.
What at first seemed quite negative, the loss of trial turned out to be an amazing result. Let me give you just one example.
In one of the appeals as we were presenting the appeal, not not long into the case, the appeal court judge stopped us.
And he began to ask us many questions about about the Bible, about what Jehovah's Witnesses believe.
So for quite some time, we answered these biblical questions. And then the case continued. And then after some minutes, the judge stopped us again.
And this time the judge said, I remember reading in the Bible, the judge said this, I remember reading in the Bible that Jesus said, if they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also.
So we said to the judge, yes, indeed, that Jesus said that.
And the judge asked, do you think that's the reason why Jehovah's Witnesses are having problems in this region? Well, what could we say but agree with the judge?
But that wasn't the end of it. As the case continued, a few minutes more, the judge stopped us again.
And this time the judge said, you know, I'm not sure if Jesus said this. It's in the Bible where he said, where there are two or three gathered together, there I am in your midst.
But indeed, those are Jesus words. And the judge looked out at this old courtroom, which was filled with our brothers and sisters. And he said, well, Jesus must be in our midst today.
We felt like breaking into applause. At the end of the court hearing, the judge ruled in our favor, acquitted the brother and the judges and all of the other cases were also acquitted our brothers. It was just a thrilling experience.
That's wonderful. That's wonderful. And thank you so much for sharing those experiences. You know, despite the challenges that you've had to face, how do you feel about the way you and Yolanda have benefited from being involved in accepting these challenging assignments in various parts of the world?
We have benefited in so many ways, Mark. Our relationship with Jehovah has has deepened. Certainly our trust in Jehovah has has been strengthened.
And we've experienced firsthand the love of the amazing worldwide brotherhood. Could I just share one experience about that?
Please, please do.
Two years ago we were involved in a case where police had raided a congregation meeting in one country. They had brutally beaten the brothers, threatened the sisters. It was just terrible.
Some weeks later, in the court case that continued or started against the brothers, the police brought against the brothers. During that court case, the police repeatedly tried to arrest me and another brother I was working with over two days.
They were trying to arrest us. Even in the courthouse, they tried to detain and arrest us. And all this all through this, my wife Yolanda was watching what was happening.
We know what was so remarkable was despite the brutal treatment our brothers and sisters had endured just a few weeks earlier at the hands of these very same police officers, those dear brothers and sisters came to our aid.
They were like a wall of protection around us and they would not leave our side until the ordeal was done. It was love and action.
So to answer your question, we have benefited in so many ways. We don't regret for a moment, accepting this thrilling assignment.
Well, thank you so much, Shane. Please give our love to Yolanda as well. We appreciate the tremendous work that you're accomplishing and majorhovah's spirit continue to be with you.
It's our privilege. We look forward to continuing to work with you, Mark.
Well, now what if getting yourself out of a rut takes longer than expected?
We're going to meet a couple from Italy who had the goal to participate in a special preaching campaign.
These campaigns can be a life-changing experience for the publishers involved, pushing them sometimes far out of their comfort zone.
However, the DJ Chintos faced trying circumstances that prevented them from participating, but they did not stop knocking on this door of opportunity.
We live in a beautiful quiet town in central Italy between the sea and the mountains.
We have many friends, some of whom are good cooks.
We have been serving for some years in a Romanian language congregation and we preach to people who have moved to Italy to seek a better life.
When we heard the announcement about the special campaign, we looked at each other and said,
Let's go!
A large door of activity was opening up to us, but there was a problem, my job.
I would need a month's leave of absence and that would be difficult.
We prayed, we did research, and during family worship, we decided that in order to participate, I would ask for a one-month leave from work.
But Jehovah had something else in mind that would create the right circumstances for us.
When I arrived at work the next day, I found an unexpected situation.
Because of the failing economy, my boss gave me and some other employees a letter of dismissal.
I was not at all worried.
I trusted in Jehovah and I knew that this new situation would allow me to participate in the campaign.
Participating in this campaign is a dream come true.
We wanted to participate in 2013, but unfortunately things in life do not always go as we would like.
We received some truly shocking news.
My father had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.
Emotionally, it was not easy.
The tranquility we had dreamed and hope for was almost gone.
The only thing that could help me at that moment was the hope for what Jehovah promises us.
In addition to my father's death, I began to experience panic attacks.
I was afraid of something that didn't exist.
I was afraid of not being able to move on.
The kind of emotion that leaves a lump in your throat and you can't even breathe.
I realized that only Jehovah could help me feel the void that I felt.
After a family worship, Fabio and I decided to turn in our regular pioneer applications.
I felt Jehovah at my side, embracing and supporting me.
In the end, they turned out to be the three most beautiful years of our lives,
which also allowed us to participate in this beautiful campaign.
In Romania, there are many isolated territories that local brothers cannot work due to the great distances to be covered.
It is really exciting to reach many people by traveling on dirt roads that are often muddy.
The people are generous, hospitable and genuine.
They almost always invite us into their homes and are willing to talk to us.
Talking to people who do not know Jehovah and who are still very much interested in doctrinal topics is really exciting.
Experiencing firsthand a culture different from ours,
seeing people who live a more simple life and trying to understand their needs
is an experience that we will take with us.
And it will help us to preach more effectively in our assigned congregation territory in Italy.
Now we are stronger than when we left home.
This experience has made us love the ministry even more.
We look forward to returning to our home territory with renewed zeal.
We are certain that Jehovah will guide us to further service opportunities
in order to help others know his wonderful purposes.
What blessings did this couple experience by staying focused on their goal?
It brought them the joy of full-time service.
Not even the threat of unemployment caused them to waver in their determination to participate.
After the campaign, they returned to their home territory with a renewed energy and zeal.
When we stay focused on Jehovah, even in the most trying of circumstances,
it will strengthen our resolve to serve him faithfully.
Youso and Paulina Halme, a couple from Finland now serving in Sierra Leone in West Africa,
were invited to accept an assignment that seemed overwhelming.
What happened when some of their worst fears came true?
How did Jehovah provide the power beyond what is normal to help them to endure?
Worrying doesn't help us.
No need really to worry what could happen.
Even if it happens, let Jehovah show how he can handle the situation.
He can actually do it in ways you could never expect.
We are Youso and Paulina Halme.
We loved our assignment in Finland branch. We had a wonderful friends.
Our families were very close. We had a time to be with them often.
In 2014, we got the yearbook and that had an account of Sierra Leone.
I was reading that account and I remember saying a couple of times to Paulina,
this would be a tough place. After coming back from Gilead, I couldn't believe it.
We got a letter saying that we have been reassigned to Sierra Leone branch.
It was a huge change for us.
Then what we did, we googled Sierra Leone and what we saw it was only about a civil war.
That took place years ago.
Ebola outbreak was starting in West Africa.
Some of our relatives were worried about that.
That was our first impression about the country.
We were terrified and we couldn't sleep with just pray whole night.
Really, with the reassignment our greatest fear was my father.
He had been terminally ill about two years and we knew that at some point it will get worse.
He would need more help and also use his mother.
So are we able to travel back to Finland?
It's so expensive and we didn't have savings.
So although we have all those fears, after praying about it a lot,
we just realized that we cannot say no.
And we realized that this assignment is from Jehovah.
Let's go there. Let's get to the work. Let's give our best to it.
Then actually in three months, our greatest fear, it came through.
It really happened that a user's mom called us and told us that a user's father's situation has changed.
So we started immediately to check flights.
And then the next call was that he had passed away.
We were able to get flights, fly back to home and support my mother, help with the funeral.
We were so happy when we finally got back to Sierra Leone.
And now we thought that we can focus to our assignment and our work at Bethel.
Then one day we got another Skype call from my father.
And then he told us that he's diagnosed with extremely aggressive cancer.
And he's in hospital now.
And he asked us to come back to Finland for visits.
We had a beautiful 10 days together with my father.
But then finally he passed away.
Yeah, that was really the lowest point in our life.
That came out of the clue. We were not expecting it.
We had two videos to take care of.
So we were really thinking if we can continue in our assignment in Sierra Leone.
At that time, one of our favorite scriptures was Isaiah 30-15
that your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
And when we poured our hearts to Jehovah in prayer,
we could so well see how Jehovah helped us to stay calm
and have peace.
And we got some good advice from much of brothers,
not to make any quick decisions.
So we put our trust to Jehovah.
And we could just see that it was Jehovah's will that we continue in our assignment in Sierra Leone.
The fact is that really the blessings always surpass any of the challenges.
And we have come to love our assignment in Sierra Leone.
Our brothers and sisters, they are so faithful in Sierra Leone despite their problems and challenges.
They give a beautiful example for us.
Being in the country where there's a lot of potential, a lot of work.
You can have as many Bible studies as you can conduct.
So it's just a preaching paradise.
Going through these experiences, we are so happy that Jehovah is a writer of our story.
And for sure, there's a happy end.
If he wants to take you there, go there.
See what Jehovah has in mind for you.
And then you can really taste and see that Jehovah is good.
Despite heart-breaking challenges,
the hallmissar Jehovah's loving support,
and they did not give up.
When we extend ourselves for Jehovah,
we can be confident that he will help us in good times and in difficult times.
We learned that we are safe with Jehovah, come what may.
What quality do you need to serve in a foreign land,
like Brother and Sister Deja Chinto,
or to face the fear of the unknown,
like Brother and Sister Hallmay?
We need courage.
As was announced last year,
courage is this year's regional convention theme.
The drama presentation will focus on a Bible character
that needed great courage to accomplish his ministry.
It's our pleasure to present a preview of the drama,
the story of Jonah, a lesson in courage and mercy.
Popus is your prophet.
I was a prophet.
I tried to run away from Jehovah.
But when is Jehovah ever asked a prophet to go to a foreign land,
to preach judgment against it?
Where about the people?
The worship gods of war.
What do you think they're like?
So, what will you do now?
You need to go back inside, Joanna.
No, we can talk to Father.
Joanna, I can't go to Nineveh.
I just can't do it.
You're Jehovah's prophet.
Not anymore.
Go home, Joanna.
The depths of the grave.
I cry to you for help.
Be kind of me.
No doubt you eagerly anticipate this year's regional convention program
held around the world starting this month.
Many of the segments on our program thus far
have featured some aspect of preaching in a foreign land.
If current circumstances don't permit you to serve in this capacity,
be assured that there's much you can do in your home territory
to revive your ministry.
For example, out of the over 100,000 publishers in South Korea,
there are more than 40,000 zealous regular pioneers.
What efforts have they made to reach more people in frequently work territory?
Let's find out.
I started pioneering less than a year after I got baptized.
So I was eager to sharpen my preaching skills.
I really wanted to share my hope with others.
But it's so hard to meet people at their homes during the day.
And even if we do meet them, it's not easy to start a conversation.
Our congregation organized convenience store witnessing from 7am to 9am.
So I thought this might be a good way to reach people
and have meaningful conversations.
But the thing is, I'm not a morning person.
So getting up early was not easy.
So I had to make some adjustments.
I tried not to make plans or stay up late the night before.
The sample presentations from our meetings were also very helpful.
In the past, I hardly got the chance to open the Bible while I was preaching.
But now, I have a few Bible studies.
Even the time we spend traveling from one convenience store to the next
is very uplifting spiritually,
because we use that time to share our preaching skills and build each other up.
Having a regular share in convenience store witnessing
has allowed me to be more productive in the ministry.
I feel like I'm progressing spiritually
and becoming a better minister of the good news.
On weekdays, I work to support my family.
So I would usually go out and field service on the weekends.
But it wasn't easy to find people at their homes,
because they usually make plans and go out.
And you know, it's hard to get excited about the preaching work
when you're not meeting many people.
I wanted to set a good example for my family,
but I found it a real challenge to maintain my zeal for the ministry.
So I began to regularly participate in evening witnessing
on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Fridays.
I usually get off work around 5 p.m.
After a long day at work,
it's not always easy to get dressed to go out in the field ministry.
But I kept up with my return visits
and had some really encouraging experiences.
A young man I had been visiting accepted a Bible study
and he's making fine progress.
My children were able to see how much joy I get from the ministry.
And so now, they too are able to give a bold witness
in their own words, even in the face of opposition.
I am very proud of my children, training and teaching them
how to make effective return visits and Bible studies
brings me great joy.
We serve in a small rural town where many leave home early in the morning
to work in the field and they return late at night.
So it's not easy to find people at home during the daytime.
And even if we do find them at their doors,
it's not easy to develop a meaningful Bible-based conversation.
Let alone make return visits and conduct Bible studies with them.
After returning home from preaching at night, I would ask myself,
did I have a meaningful share in the ministry today?
It's a small rural town.
So many people are concerned about what their neighbors would think
if they talked with us.
So even those who are interested in learning more about the Bible
were reluctant to have Bible discussions with us.
It was really unfortunate.
We tried to figure out the right time to call on people.
And we found out that many householders are more relaxed
than willing to talk about the Bible.
So if we visit them around 9 or 10 o'clock in the evening,
I gave much thought on how I could help my Bible students
have a regular intake of spiritual food.
One of my students worked from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.
So I asked her if we can arrange to study early in the morning.
She agreed.
I often tell my Bible students,
just call me whenever you have a little time to talk.
When I get those calls, no matter what time it is,
it's time to rush out that door.
There was one elderly lady who was in her early 80s
who had attended church all her life.
To accommodate her needs, I visited her around 9 or 10 o'clock
in the evening for our Bible studies.
I come home feeling tired and hungry,
but the satisfaction of knowing that I've helped her learn more about the truth
enables me to maintain my joy.
Now I'm able to conduct about 12 Bible studies.
I try to become all things to people of all sorts
in order to look after their needs.
And it brings me great satisfaction and joy to see my studies make progress
because that's really how Jehovah wants us to be carrying out our ministry.
You might feel that you've worked every corner of your home territory,
but just like a literal fisherman adapts to the time when the fish are biting,
we need to work when people can be found.
Cast your nets into productive waters.
Our sister arranged her schedule to call on her Bible student at 9 or 10 in the evening.
Of course, we want to use good judgment to call it times that are both practical
and safe for our territory.
But by being adaptable to when, where or how we preach the good news,
we may yield good results like our fellow witnesses in South Korea.
This will help us to have a meaningful share in the all-important work
of finding those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
Regular pioneers work in a powerful way to help their brothers and sisters
get the most out of their ministry.
But does that mean that they're impervious to being in a rut, as mentioned earlier?
In the following dramatization, see how one pioneer sister comes to realize
the need to adjust her approach to the field ministry.
It was really nice of Maria to invite me in service,
but I already have plans with Sarah.
We have similar service schedules, and we really enjoy working together.
I try to get most of my time during the week.
Anyone made plans to work together?
Though I do meet with the group sometimes on Saturday.
Sister Martin, thanks everyone.
Anyone made plans to work together?
Okay, Joanna, you can work with Sarah.
Could I work with Alicia?
Uh-huh.
Joanna, could you two work together, please?
I'd love to, but I've just arranged to work with Sarah.
I'm so sorry.
No problem.
Maria, could you work with this sister?
While doing my Bible reading that night,
I was really affected by the words found at 2nd Corinthians 6, 12, and 13.
You are restricted in your own tender affections.
Open your heart's wide.
It struck me that some in the congregation missed out on a beautiful blessing
by drawing away from the Apostle Paul.
I realized I was limiting my joy as well,
by not working with more in the ministry.
I was going through the motions of pioneering,
but I was stuck in the same routine.
How are you, Maria?
Good.
And you?
Let me ask you something.
Could you join me on a Bible study Saturday?
Oh, I'd love that.
That's great.
So later we'll make the arrangements, okay?
Exactly.
My student liked Maria and Isabelle so much.
I really learned a lot from them.
I started going out regularly on the weekends.
Anyone made plans to work together?
And working with different ones in the ministry.
And I learned more about Sister Martin after one day in the ministry
than I had in years of seeing her at meetings.
Sarah and I still enjoy working together.
But I found that by working with a variety of friends,
my own joy has increased.
I'm so glad I opened my heart wide.
Joanna came to realize that her privilege of full-time service
was more than just hours and a schedule.
By working with a variety of sisters in the ministry
and supporting her field service group,
she could strengthen and encourage others.
It was within her power to help,
but with what result?
It rejuvenated her ministry.
We truly appreciate the love and sacrifice of our pioneers.
Have you been inspired to make a change in your ministry?
Whether big or small, at home or abroad,
we can find the satisfaction that comes from
re-envigorating our ministry.
That's the theme featured in the music video entitled,
I'm Making a Change.
My serving Jehovah through the same routine.
The things that I'm doing in a change
are taking some changes along for trusting in you.
The governing body deeply appreciates the work
of each kingdom publisher.
You dear brothers and sisters are having a regular share
in the preaching work, and we commend you for that.
You can be sure that God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work,
and the love you showed for His name,
as the Bible says at Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10.
Just knowing that can help us to take a fresh look
at our ministry and can invigorate us
to participate to the fullest extent.
To conclude, we bring you greetings from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
This mountainous region has a rich history
as a traditional meeting place between Eastern
and Western cultures dating from the Middle Ages.
Because of the diverse religious beliefs within the country,
the 1,160 publishers must adapt their preaching methods
to appeal to the hearts of those who listen.
This is the city of Mostar, which sits on the Neretva River.
The Neretva River flows for nearly 230 kilometers
or almost 144 miles.
Mostar was a former front line during the wars of the 1990s
and many buildings still bear the marks of the intense fighting
that took place.
Likewise, the aftermath left many people in this region
with emotional and mental scars.
Our brothers and sisters are working hard
to bring the hope of something good to those in need.
In the 1930s, a pioneer brother named Alfred Tuchek
spearheaded the preaching work in the city of Mostar.
He was actually one of the first in the former Yugoslavia to pioneer.
Today, the congregation in Mostar has about 60 publishers,
including nine pioneers and four field missionaries.
They bring their warm love and greetings to all of us around the world.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses.